This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).

## Startup React
* I've been writing the whole project in React from the beginning. I chose a framework called Next.js for its popularity among small scale web application developers, and for its easy deployment. Next.js doesn't actually have you build your own router instead, it has you organize your file structure in a way a certain way, then it turns uses your file structure to build an optimized router for your service. There are also some very big drawbacks to building a web app as a single page application and Next allows you to get the SEO that a statically built website has while still allowing you to render certain components on your page on the server, this hybrid approach helps balance the pros and cons of both strategies. Regardless though, I talked with the professor about my using Next.js and he said that it wouldn't be an issue as long as I could explain how it does the things required in the assignment, (like routing).
* I wrote a custom hook for the draw page which uses websockets to create a live collaborative drawing experience. I didn't need to have a useState anywhere, but that wasn't in the requirements. I could have used it in the navbar to update the display for login/register vs logout, but whenever I create a userSession through NextAuth it rerenders all of my components, so I just have a ternary operator deciding which buttons to display in my navbar component, then that navbar component is cached for every page until the user logs out.

## Startup Websocket

* Backend listens for WebSocket connection: Custom process run via pm2 in ec2 to support web socket creation. Whenever a new connection is established the server queries active clients for the current state of the draw window, then passes it back to the client. It also distributes data from all current clients to all other clients.
* Frontend makes WebSocket connection: The draw page establishes a WSS socket connection with the socket service I setup on my ec2 instance. Anytime I draw it sends a message to the server about the line I drew so that the server can notify other clients about the new line. 
* Data sent over WebSocket connection: All line data is sent over socket connections.
* WebSocket data displayed in the application interface: All lines are displayed and drawn on the canvas of the UI. 


## Startup Login

Supports new user registration: register page takes user info and stores it inside of MongoDB, OAuth for a github account also supports arbitrary users
Supports existing user authentication: Credentials authenticator authenticates an email and password native to this application. OAuth also supports other users.
Stores and retrieves credentials in MongoDB: yes, see app/register/page.tsx and app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts, both use functions from lib/db
Restricts application functionality based on authentication: yes, nextauth middleware redirects any restricted page to a user login

## Startup Service

I had a conversation with the professor at the beginning of the semester that I would be using Next.js. He said that it would be fine. By using Next
my frontend is served up using a combination of static and dynamic requests to my next server. I have implemented some authentication middleware using
third pary requests to add authentication using google. I also use third party requests to generate dummy data. Because my assets and frontend are being
generated by my backend there is no opportunity for them to make calls back to the backend.

## Startup Javascript

I also didn't get any credit for `Startup JavaScript`. If you could grade that as well that would be appreciated. I added support for login, but it is still under review. I'm hoping that I can cleanup the code for authentication as it takes approval from google to use GoogleAuth. I'm also not sure that Next.js and websockets are compatible, so it will be interesting to see if there is a third party service or workaround that I can use. I do have javascript serving my files and use await fetch() to  get new data.

## Startup DB

MongoDB Atlas database created: I have a mongodb database used in my simon account, and then I have adatabase that is 

Provide backend endpoints for data: the resources in the app/api folder are all api routes that my frontend can reference on the backend. These endpoints utilize functions defined in the lib/db folder.

Stores application data in MongoDB: users, cars, and services are all stored in teh database. I might expand this a little bit more, but so far this is what I know I'll have

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/font-optimization) to automatically optimize and load Inter, a custom Google Font.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment) for more details.
